Vareniki
Vareniki are dumplings similar to Polish pierogi, that are traditional in Ukraine. There are several kinds of fillings, with mashed potatoes being the most classic.
Prep Time
1hour hr 30minutes mins
Cook Time
1hour hr
Rest Time
30minutes mins
Total Time
2hours hrs 30minutes mins
Course: Side DishCuisine: Eastern European, Ukrainian, Vegetarian Servings: 4 people Author: Sarah-Eden
Ingredients
For the dough
2 cups flour , sifted
2 eggs , lightly beaten
½ cup milk (at 97 F / 36°C)
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 teaspoon salt
For the filling
1 lb potatoes
2 onions , diced
½ cup milk (boiling)
4 tablespoons neutral vegetable oil
4 tablespoons butter
To serve
2 scallions , chopped
1 onion , diced
2 tablespoons caster sugar
1 tablespoon butter
Salt
Pepper
Equipment
Skimmer
Potato masher
Cookie cutter (3 inches / 7 cm)
Instructions
Filling
Heat the vegetable oil in a frying pan and fry the onions over medium heat, stirring regularly until they are golden brown, then drain them of their oil and place on plate lined with paper towel.
Peel and boil the potatoes in a large amount of lightly salted water.
Drain the potatoes using a large skimmer and keep the boiling water for cooking.
Place the cooked potatoes in a large bowl and, using a potato masher, mash the potatoes, gradually adding the boiling milk. Add the butter and, optionally, a little boiling water from the potatoes and mix until a slightly firm consistency is obtained.
Add the fried onions and mix. Season with salt and pepper. Set aside.
To serve
In a small skillet, melt the butter.
Fry the onion over medium heat for 1 minute then add the sugar.
Cook over low to medium heat for 10 minutes, stirring regularly.
Remove from heat, transfer to a bowl and set aside in a warm place for serving.
Dough
Combine sifted flour, salt, eggs, milk and 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil. Knead a homogeneous dough. Cover and let stand 30 minutes, away from heat.
Divide the dough into 2 or 3 pieces and roll out each piece of dough to a thickness of ⅛ inch (3 mm).
Using a cookie cutter, cut circles about 3 inches (7 cm) in diameter.
Place 1 teaspoon of filling in the center of each circle of dough, fold them in half to form a semi-circle and pinch the edges with wet hands.
Cooking
Heat a large amount of boiling salted water in a casserole dish.
Immerse the vareniki in simmering water and cook them for 3 minutes.
Drain.
To serve
Place the boiled vareniki in a bowl or deep dish.
Sprinkle with fried onions, salt lightly, pepper, and mix gently.
Finally sprinkle with chopped spring onion.